hello it's Ruby and today I am going to
be filming a video I've wanted to film
the ages I filmed a video six months ago
where I told you my two hundred favorite
books I didn't go into very much of the
tool on what the books were actually
about but I think you can tell a lot
from a book by its fast line and so
today I'm going to be reading you the
first lines of my fifty favorite books
hopefully you can walk away from this
with some recommendations and an idea of
which of these books you might like
given the writing style so we are going
to start with children's books once on a
dark winter's day when the yellow fog
hung so thick and heavy in the streets
of London allowance were lighted in the
shop windows blazed with gas as they do
at night an odd-looking little girl sat
in the cab with her father and was
driven rather slowly through the big
thoroughfares
it's a funny thing about mothers and
fathers even when their own child is the
most disgusting little blister you could
ever imagine they still think that he or
she is wonderful all children except one
grow up mrs. Rachel Lynde lived just
where the Avonlea main road dipped down
into a little hollow fringed with alders
and ladies air drops in traversed by a
brook that had its thoughts away back in
the woods of the old cars birthplace it
was fun at first playing house I made
all my own meals crackers and cheese
three times a day
mr. and mrs. Dursley of number four
privet Drive were proud to say that they
were perfectly normal thank you very
much
Coraline discovered the little door a
little while after they moved into the
house I know I'm not an ordinary
ten-year-old kid I mean sure I do
ordinary thanks I eat ice cream I ride
my bike and play ball I have an Xbox
stuff like that makes me ordinary I
guess and I feel ordinary inside but I
know ordinary kids don't make other
ordinary kids run away screaming in
playgrounds it looks like a one Winberg
crouched in the corner of our living
room trying to fly every time the heat
pump turns on with a click and a groan
and blows cold air into the sheet and
lifts it up and flutters for just a
moment and then falls down again still
dad the monster screwed up just after
midnight as they do we sit together
outside the Fosters freeze at a C green
metal picnic table all four of us i
sprint across the yard my eyes streaming
my heart pounding in my chest the noise
of the gun fire is still deafening and I
hear I actually hear bullets whizzing
past me
at night I would lie in bed and watch
the show how B is squeezed through the
cracks of my bedroom wall and through
circles around the room making that
propeller sound a high pitch that hummed
along my skin dear friend I am writing
to you because she said you listened
understand and didn't try to sleep with
that person at the party even though you
could have I wore a black suit and a
white shirt a black tie and black shoes
all polished and shiny clothes that
normally would make me feel
uncomfortable as if I were in a stolen
uniform or pretending to be an adult I
like to run at night no one watches me
no one hears my sneakers slipping in the
loose gravel at the side of the road hip
knew where they lived
everyone in little kilter knew where
they lived the home was like the town's
own haunted house people's footsteps
quickened as they walked by and their
words strangled and died in their
throats the laughter starts as a low
murmur hallelu you might not even have
noticed if it wasn't coming from a few
seats down I stood perfectly still
looking up at the house and at the dark
sky beyond it a band miss drifted from
the moon making way for the next set of
clouds what I hoped would be the
picturesque backdrop I've been waiting
for welcome to the beautiful Sinclair
family no one is a criminal no one is an
addict no one is a failure the Sinclairs
are athletic tall and handsome
our smile's white our Chin's square and
our tennis nerves aggressive
the full African moon poured down its
light from the blue sky into the wide
lonely plane the nests of dreams she is
a grown woman
heavy with flashing care party limber
graceful daughters are dancing and
leaping on the shores she watches from
the grass where the sand ends their
dresses flutter talk white like apple
flash or a Sun bleached stone London
Trinity town one we called implacable
June weather
Fiona May a High Court judge at home on
Sunday evening the play for which Brian
E had designed the posters programs and
tickets constructed the sales booth out
of a folding screen tipped on its side
and line the collection box in red crepe
paper was written by her and a two-day
tempest of competition causing her to
miss a breakfast and lunch the past is a
foreign country they do things
differently there the first time Richard
hit me I saw stars in front of my eyes
just like they do in cartoons my name
was salmon like the fish first named
Suzy I was 14 when I was murdered on
December 6 1973 what about the tea
kettle what if the spouts opened and
closed when the steam came out so it
would become a mouth and it could
whistle pretty melodies or do
Shakespeare or just crack up with me I
could invent a tea kettle that reads and
dad's voice or I could fall asleep I
have to do this with an accent I'm sorry
last night I dreamt I went to Manderley
again it seemed to me I stood by the
iron gate leading to the drive and for a
while I could not enter time is not a
line but a dimension Molly was dead to
begin with there is no doubt whatever
about that an old man with a white
moustache had some difficulty in getting
into bed in the year 1872 the house
number seven Savile Row Burlington
Gardens the house in which Sheridan died
in the 18:14 was inhabited by Phileas
Fogg Esquire one of the most singular
and most noticed members of the Reform
club of London although he seemed to
take care to do nothing which might
attract attention the longer my father
lived in this world the more he knew
that there was another to come it was
not that he thought this world beyond
saving although in darkness I suppose
there was some of that but rather he
that he imagined there must be a finer
one where God corrected his mistake some
men and women lived in the second draft
of creation and did not notice bath it
makes you think of coconut frosted
cookies
maybe drugs a respectable life you think
subway station suburb probably nothing
else comes to mind I became what I am
today at the age of 12 on a frigid
overcast day in the winter of 1975 my
name is Kathy H I'm 31 years old and
I've been a Kara now for over eleven
years mr. Griese disappeared on a Monday
I know it was a Monday because it was
the day the dustbin then came and the
Avenue was filled with the smell of
scraped plates today I am alone I wake
up alone this morning all the rooms that
have recently contained sleeping people
people I had to be careful not to
disturb are empty half an hour after Tim
Jemison's Delta flight was scheduled to
leave Tampa for the bright lights and
tall buildings of New York it was still
parked at the gate
David lay quite still in the darkness
listening to the man's low muttering but
this evening he was aware of their
voices only as a fake meaningless noise
in the distance it was a bright cold day
in April and the clocks were striking
thirteen the Boulevard de carnage was a
broad quiet Street that marks the East
and flank of the city of Camille in some
ways they were lucky the luxury and
empty is in South Africa's largest
auntie town after all they had both a
job and a roof over their heads the
studio was filled with the rich odor of
roses and when the lights on the wind
stirred amidst the trees at the garden
that came through the open door the
heavy scent of lilac or the most
delicate perfume of the pink flowering
thorn dear Franklin I'm unsure why one
trifling incident this afternoon has
moved me to write to you but since we've
been separated I may most miss coming
home to deliver the narrative
curiosities of my day Marsh is a space
of light where grass grows in water and
water flows into the sky when people ask
me what I do
taxi drivers dental hygienists I tell
them I work in an office in almost nine
years no one's ever asked what kind of
office or what thoughts of job I do that
it was a special pleasure to see things
eaten to see things blackened and
changed with the brass nozzle in his
fists with this great Python spitting
its venomous kerosene upon the world the
blood in this head and his hands with
the hands of some amazing conductor
playing symphonies of blazing and
burning to bring down the tatters and
charcoal ruins of history I really hope
that you enjoyed watching this video I
no it's slightly different to most book
videos that I've uploaded before but I
really think that the first lines of
books can often tell you a lot about
what you're going to like them and some
of the first lines of these books I read
t today are so clever so thank you so
much for watching today's video I hope
that you enjoyed it and I hope that you
have a productive week
[Music]